StringCrossSearchApp v 1.0

Developed by Bagrat Abramian Petrosian, using MATLAB R2019b

This is a basic application developed for the purpose of comparing string arrays.
In particular, this is an app developed for searching many different substrings withing strings.

This file is to explain the meaning of the various functions this app possesses, as well as to try to explain any possible problems.

1. Inputs and UI

1.1 Import data vector

This allows the app to import the data in which you want to search the various substrings.
The source file must be in the form of a vertical vector.

1.2 Import search vector

This allows the app to import the list of substrings to be searched in the data vector.
The source file must be in the form of a vertical vector.

1.3 Check search vector conflicts

This makes the app search whether any of the substrings of the search vector is also a substring of any other substring.
The resulting conflict report is printed in the "Search vector conflicts" text box.

1.4 Search vector conflicts

This lists the results of the "Check search vector conflicts" operation.

1.5 Copy search vector conflicts

This button copies the text in the "Search vector conflicts" text box into your clipboard.

1.6 Export total search values vector (per data point)

Upon run, creates a text file with a vertical vector for the number of substrings found in each string.
The name of the file is defined in the "Total search values vector (pdp) filename" textbox.
The folder in which it will be created is defined with the "Select output folder" button.

1.7 Export total search values vector (per search point)

Upon run, creates a text file with a vertical vector for the number of strings in which the respective substring is found.
The name of the file is defined in the "Total search values vector (psp) filename" textbox.
The folder in which it will be created is defined with the "Select output folder" button.

1.8 Export combined data matrix with totals

Upon run, creates a xls file with the first column being the data vector and the second column being the number of substrings found in each string.
The name of the file is defined in the "Combined data matrix filename" textbox.
The folder in which it will be created is defined with the "Select output folder" button.

1.9 Export combined search matrix with totals

Upon run, creates a xls file with the first column being the search vector and the second column being the number of strings in which the respective substring is found.
The name of the file is defined in the "Combined search matrix filename" textbox.
The folder in which it will be created is defined with the "Select output folder" button.

1.10 Export correlation matrix (not recomended)

Upon run, creates a text file with the comma-separated correlation matrix which describes precisely which substrings are found in each string.
The name of the file is defined in the "Correlation matrix filename" textbox.
The folder in which it will be created is defined with the "Select output folder" button.
(!) Checking this option is not recommended, as it can create very large files for even medium-sized data and search vectors.

1.11 Help

This button opens the "help.txt" file (The file you are reading right now).

1.12 Normalize vectors

This button puts the data and search vectors' strings in lowercase.
This is useful to simplify cross-searching, and to ensure that capitalization mismatch doesn't cause false negatives.
If capitalization is key to your cross-search, do not use this button.

1.13 Select output folder

Designates the folder in which the output file(s) will be saved.

1.14 Run cross-search

Executes the cross-search of the search vector in the data vector, and generates all the files chosen.

2 Problems and errors

2.1 The data vector must be a vertical vector.

If trying to import a file with "Import data vector" that isn't a vertical vector, this error message will appear.
Please make sure that your input only contains one column.
Most .txt files, even those with commas, semicolons, apostrophes, and quotation marks should work as data vectors, although there are some exceptions.


2.2 The search vector must be a vertical vector.

If trying to import a file with "Import search vector" that isn't a vertical vector, this error message will appear.
Please make sure that your input only contains one column.
Most .txt files, even those with commas, semicolons, apostrophes, and quotation marks should work as search vectors, although there are some exceptions.

2.3 No search vector imported.

If trying to use "Check seach vector conflicts" before importing a search vector, this error message will appear.
This error will also appear if trying to use "Normalize vectors" before importing a search vector.
This error will also appear if trying to use "Run cross-search" before importing a search vector.
Please make sure that you have imported a search vector before trying to analyze it, or before trying to normalize vectors, or before trying to run a cross-search.

2.4 No data vector imported.

If trying to use "Normalize vectors" before importing a data vector, this error message will appear.
This error will also appear if trying to use "Run cross-search" before importing a data vector.
Please make sure to import a data vector before trying to normalize vectors, or before trying to run a cross-search.

2.5 You have not selected any output. Running right now would be pointless.

If trying to run a cross-search when there are no checkboxes checked, this error message will appear.
Since the "Run cross-search" function's only purporse is to create files of the results of the cross-search, running it without exporting any of the results would only consume resources.
Please select at least one of the export options before trying to execute a cross-search.

2.6 Two or more output files have the same name. (This message will appear regardless of whether or not the conflicting outputs have both been selected).

IF trying to use "Run cross-search" when two or more of the output file names are identical, this error message will appear.
As the message indicates, this will happen even if the export file in conflict is not selected.
Please assign non-conflicting names to the various export files.

2.7 No output folder specified.

If trying to use "Run cross-search" before specifying an output folder, this error message will appear.
Please specify an output folder before running a cross-search.

2.8 No name given to output file.

If trying to use "Run a cross-search" when any of the selected output files has been left with a blank name, this error will appear.
Please assing a name to the output files before running a cross-search.

3 Contact information

To contact the developer, please send an email to bagratap@gmail.com
